# Tamil-Handwritten-Digit-Recognition-System

# Problem Statement : The ability of computers to detect human handwritten digits is known as handwritten digit recognition. Because handwritten digits are not flawless and may be generated with a variety of tastes, it is a difficult assignment for the machine. The answer to this problem is handwritten digit recognition, which utilizes a picture of a digit to recognise the digit contained in the image. In practically every field, machine learning is reducing human labor. Furthermore, a machine learning solution may power several applications at the same time, minimizing human work and enhancing the system's versatility. A handwritten digit recognition system, for example, can be utilized in postal mail sorting, bank check processing, form data entry, teaching field and other applications.

# Solution Approach : The aim of the project is to predict the handwritten digit which is provided as an input in image format.Thus the dataset consists of images which are raw data collected in various formats. We first start by collecting a large amount of data and preprocessing and converting it to the desired format for the next step that is feature extraction. Feature extraction is the most important and challenging part of the project. The extracted features are used in the model training process. Once the model is built we check its accuracy and test the model. We also checked the performance of the model on unseen data i.e the data which was not the part of the collected dataset. 

# Algorithms Used After performing EDA and preprocessing, we came to the part where we have to choose the best algorithm for model building. So, these algorithms we used to build the model from which we chose the one which gave the best result. ● SVM (Support vector Machine) ● KNN (K-Nearest Neighbours) ● Random Forest
